Adding support for experimental Custom CA integration using Kubernetes CSR API (#8341)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/cert-management/custom-ca-k8s/index.md

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get secrets -n bookinfo $(secret-name) -o json
    {{< /text >}}

    The `ca.crt` field in the output contains the base64 encoded Kubernetes CA certificate.

1. Compare the `ca.cert` obtained in the previous step with the contents of the `TrustedCA` field in the step before. These two should be the same.

1. (Optional) Follow the rest of the steps mentioned in the bookinfo example (<https://istio.io/latest/docs/examples/bookinfo/>) to ensure that communication between services works fine.

### Cleanup Part 1

* To remove the `istio-system` and `bookinfo` namespace:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete ns istio-system
    $ kubectl delete ns bookinfo
    {{< /text >}}

## Part 2: Using Custom CA

This assumes that the custom CA implements a controller that has the necessary permissions to read and sign Kubernetes CSR Requests. Refer (<https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests/>) for more details. Note that the steps below are dependent on an external-source and may change.

### Deploy Custom CA controller in the Kubernetes cluster

> 1. For this example, we use an open-source Certificate Authority implemented here
>    <https://github.com/cert-manager/signer-ca>. This code builds a controller that reads the CSR resources creates on the Kubernetes cluster and creates certificates using local keys. Follow the instructions on the page to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For this example, we use an [open-source Certificate Authority implementation](https://github.com/cert-manager/signer-ca).
    This code builds a controller that reads the CSR resources on the Kubernetes cluster and creates certificates using local keys. Follow the instructions on the page to:
```

   1. Build the Certificate-Controller docker image

>    1. Upload it to a Docker Registry and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Upload the image to a Docker Registry
```

>    1. Generate the Kubernetes manifest to deploy the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Generate the Kubernetes manifest to deploy it
```

> 1. Deploy the Kubernetes manifest generated in the step above on your local cluster in the signer-ca-system namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy the Kubernetes manifest generated in the previous step on your local cluster in the signer-ca-system namespace.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f local-ca.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

>    Ensure that all the services are running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Ensure that all the services are running.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get services -n signer-ca-system
      NAME                                           TYPE        CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
      signer-ca-controller-manager-metrics-service   ClusterIP   10.8.9.25    none        8443/TCP   72s
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Get the public key of the CA. This is encoded in the secret "signer-ca-*" in the signer-ca-system namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Get the public key of the CA. This is encoded in the secret "signer-ca-*" in the signer-ca-system namespace.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get secrets signer-ca-5hff5h74hm -o json
    {{< /text >}}

   The `tls.crt` field contains the base64 encoded public key file. Record this for future use.

### Load the CA root certificate into a secret that istiod can access

> 1. Load the secret into the istiod namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Load the secret into the istiod namespace.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF > ./external-ca-secret.yaml
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Secret
      metadata:
        name: external-ca-cert
        namespace: istio-system
      data:
      root-cert.pem: <tls.cert from the step above>
      EOF
    $ kubectl apply -f external-ca-secret.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

>     This step is necessary for Istio to verify that the workload certificates have been signed by the correct certificate authority and adds the root-cert to the trust bundle for mTLS to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This step is necessary for Istio to verify that the workload certificates have been signed by the correct certificate authority and to add the root-cert to the trust bundle for mTLS to work.
```

### Deploying Istio

> 1. Deploy Istio on the cluster using `istioctl` with the feature configuration applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy Istio on the cluster using `istioctl` with the following configuration.
```

                      resources:
                      - signers
                      verbs:
                      - approve
        pilot:
          k8s:
            env:
              # Indicate to Istiod that we use an external signer
              - name: EXTERNAL_CA
                value: KUBERNATES
              # Indicate to Istiod the external k8s Signer Name
              - name: K8S_SIGNER
                value: example.com/foo
            overlays:
            - kind: Deployment
              name: istiod
              patches:
                - path: spec.template.spec.containers[0].volumeMounts[-1]
                  value: |
                    # Mount external CA certificate into Istiod
                    name: external-ca-cert
                    mountPath: /etc/external-ca-cert
                    readOnly: true
                - path: spec.template.spec.volumes[-1]
                  value: |
                    name: external-ca-cert
                    secret:
                      secretName: external-ca-cert
                      optional: true
    EOF
    $ istioctl install --set profile=demo -f ./istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Deploy the `bookinfo` sample application in the bookinfo namespace. Ensure that the instructions below are executed in the Istio directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy the `bookinfo` sample application in the bookinfo namespace.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create ns bookinfo
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml) -n bookinfo
    {{< /text >}}

### Verify that Custom CA certificates installed are correct

> When the workloads are deployed above, they send CSR Requests to Istiod which forwards them to the Kubernetes CA for signing. If all goes well, the signed certificates are send back to the workloads where they are installed. To verify that they have indeed been signed by the Kubernetes CA, we need to first extract the signed certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the workloads are deployed, above, they send CSR Requests to Istiod which forwards them to the Kubernetes CA for signing. If all goes well, the signed certificates are sent back to the workloads where they are then installed. To verify that they have indeed been signed by the Kubernetes CA, you need to first extract the signed certificates.
```

1. Dump all pods running in the namespace.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n bookinfo
    {{< /text >}}

>    Pick any of the running pods for the next step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Pick any of the running pods for the next step.
```

> 1. Get the certificate chain and CA root certificate used by the Istio proxies for mTLS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Get the certificate chain and CA root certificate used by the Istio proxies for mTLS.
```

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ istioctl pc secret $(pod-name) -o json > proxy_secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ istioctl pc secret <pod-name> -o json > proxy_secret
```

    {{< /text >}}

   The `proxy_secret` json file contains the CA root certificate for mTLS in the `trustedCA` field. Note that this certificate is base64 encoded.

1. Compare the CA root certificate obtained in the step above with "root-cert.pem" value in external-ca-cert. These two should be the same.

> 1. (Optional) Follow the rest of the steps mentioned in the bookinfo example (<https://istio.io/latest/docs/examples/bookinfo/>) to ensure that communication between services works fine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) Follow the rest of the steps in the [bookinfo example](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) to ensure that communication between services is working as expected.
```

### Cleanup Part 2

> * To remove the `istio-system` and `bookinfo` namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Remove the `istio-system` and `bookinfo` namespaces:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete ns istio-system
    $ kubectl delete ns bookinfo
    {{< /text >}}

> ## Reason to use this feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reasons to use this feature
```

---

> title: Istio Custom Certificate Authority Integration using Kubernetes CSR API [experimental]

Reviewer: Title is very long. How about shortening:

```suggestion
title: Custom CA Integration using Kubernetes CSR [experimental]
```

Author: done

Reviewer: You'll need to run `make gen` again, because of the doc title change

description: Shows how to use a Custom Certificate Authority (that integrates with the Kubernetes CSR API) to provision Istio workload certificates.

> weight: 90

Reviewer: This controls where in the list of documents under the same folder, this one should go. I think it should be last, so higher than the other highest one (90).
```suggestion
weight: 100
```

Author: Agreed
